# Systems Programming - Daily 2

The objective of this assignment is to practice your skills navigating the file system structure in UNIX and to solidify a few concepts about file systems from the lecture.  There is no hope of strong CS skills without a strong grasp of the file system!

You will complete a few tasks and answer a few questions.

DUE: Friday August 27 by class start
VALUE: 3 points

## Tasks

0) Make a copy of this file in your dropbox, but call the copy d2.md instead of README.md.

1) Navigate to /escnfs/home/cmcmill2/public/d2/ on one of the student machines and create a folder with the same name as your netid.  For example, for my "other" username cmc, I'd create /escnfs/home/cmcmill2/public/d2/cmc/

2) Make that directory readable, writable, and executable to your netid.  But then also make that directory readable and executable (but not writable) to your group and to the world.  What is the octal code for this set of permissions?

DIRECTORY PERMISSION OCTAL CODE: 755

3) Use a text editor to create a file called asciiart.txt inside that directory.  Go online and find your favorite ASCII art and copy it into that file.  Save the file.

4) Make the file readable and writable to your netid.  Make the files read-only to the group and the rest of the world.  What is the octal code for this set of permissions?

FILE PERMISSION OCTAL CODE: 644

5) There is a hidden directory inside /escnfs/home/cmcmill2/public/d2/  What is it called?

HIDDEN DIRECTORY NAME: .dinosaurs

6) Create a symlink in that directory to your asciiart.txt.  Call your symlink NETID.txt.  So for example, I would create /escnfs/home/cmcmill2/public/d2/HIDDENDIRECTORY/cmc.txt -> ../cmc/asciiart.txt

## Grading

I provide a test script for you to evaluate whether you created the files, folders, and permissions correctly.  You will get full credit if that script passes *and* you correctly fill in the ??? prompts in your copy of this file.

Script location is:

~/esc-courses/fa21-cse-20289.01/public/shell/d2/d2test.sh

Run it like this:

$ bash ~/esc-courses/fa21-cse-20289.01/public/shell/d2/d2test.sh NETID HIDDENDIR DIRPERM FILEPERM

Where:
NETID = your netid
HIDDENDIR = the name of the hidden directory
DIRPERM = the octal code for the directory permission
FILEPERM = the octal code for the file permission

Yes, this does mean you will need to know the correct hidden directory, directory permission code, and file permission code in order to run the script.

For example:

$ cd ~/esc-courses/fa21-cse-20289.01/public/shell/d2/
$ bash d2test.sh cmc HIDDENDIR DIRPERM FILEPERM
Testing cmc ...
   check 0                        ... Success   <--- EDIT: check 0 now removed
   check 1                        ... Success
   check 2                        ... Success
   check 3                        ... Success
   check 4                        ... Success
   check 6a                       ... Success
   check 6b                       ... Success

## Turn in

All you need to do is put your copy of this file (remember, name it d2.md not README.md) in your dropbox.

